I want to show you how to make a chutney
which is one of the easiest ways of
preserving fruits and vegetables I'm
just going to do a really simple one
here with apples I've got cooking apples
here brown the apples tip those into a
pan without 1.5 kilos that I've peeled
you also need to make sure you've given
them a wash lots of people like to make
chutneys with fruit and veg from their
allotment so make sure you give that a
good scrub to that going to add some
raisins because that's always quite nice
and a chutney pop those in and then the
difference between the chutney on other
ways of preserving things is that it
uses vinegar or another stringent acid
to preserve everything I'm using about
750 mils of cider vinegar and you want
roughly it depends from recipe to recipe
but roughly the same quantity of sugar
so I'll put that in as well also want to
put some chopped up onions just to give
it a bit more flavour and then finally
you don't have to but the word chutney
actually comes from India while they're
very into their pickles and other spices
so it's quite nice I've got some mustard
seeds some ground ginger be careful with
some of the ground spices because you
don't want to make it too cloudy and
then all you do heat that over a medium
heat you want to bring it up to a boil
and then you just let it cook and it
depends how much you do for something
this will probably take about 40 minutes
or so to an hour to cook down if you've
got a bigger batch it might even take
you an hour and a half but just keep
checking on it every 10 minutes also
giving it a stir and after that time
you'll end up with a really thick kind
of slightly pulpy mixture like this and
a really good test to show that it's
done is if you just run your spoon
through it it should still be kind of
syrup in you shouldn't get lots of
liquid leeching out once that's done and
all the flavors are amalgamated you're
ready to preserve it so what you want to
do is to get a jam jar like this I like
these
if you have jam jars with like a metal
lid I want to be a bit careful about
that because the vinegar will actually
eat through the metal so make sure you
get plastic ones pop that the easiest
way to do it you can pop it in a big pan
and sterilize it by boiling it for 10
minutes but it's much easier just to put
it to a dishwasher and then you want to
put it into an oven set at about 150
degrees for 10 minutes to dry it off now
you want to do this while both of them
are still hot so I'll get a spoon that
I've also sterilized as well
fill it nearly all the way up there we
go and then you simply have to seal the
lid and then actually with a chutney
it's great to use autumnal fruits
because you actually want to keep them
in the cupboard for a couple of months
about three months I'd say just to let
the vinegar settle a bit and the flavors
to mellow and they'll keep for up to
about six months summer maybe even up to
a year once you've opened them best to
keep them in the fridge where they'll
keep for up to a month or so then it's
perfect have a dog with some cheese and
some salad for a really nice ploughman's
lunch and that's how you make chutney